
Intelligent Decision-Making for Autonomous Cars with Distributed Reinforcement Learning and Self-Trained Neural Networks

 The purpose of my project is to build a software for autonomous cars that utilizes neural networks and distributed reinforcement learning. Driving on the road requires the driver to make intelligent split-second decisions about their actions which could impact themselves and other vehicles. In this project, neural networks demonstrate that they can take the place of the driver as neural networks are able to take in large amounts of data, learn from it, and make decisions on new situations.
 
  Everything in my project was coded from scratch using Java. All of the data that the neural networks learned from was generated by the program itself; none of the data was handpicked. At first the training failed; one significant issue I faced was the issue of overtraining. The neural network would make detrimental decisions because it had learned heavily from commonly seen patterns and less from rarer but more critical patterns. To correct this issue, three learning methods were proposed to ensure that cars were able to learn a wide variety of different situations. Once training was successful, the cars drove, avoiding obstacles such as other cars or user-placed blocks and following the laid-out path.
  
  My project was evaluated by how well the cars performed in avoiding obstacles such as other vehicles and following the designated path. The error of the neural network was also an evaluator; as the network kept learning, the error gradually dropped until the car was able to drive properly without many collisions. Analyzing my neural network, it produced appropriate outputs, ensuring that a collision was unlikely. For example, if the leftmost sensor was blocked, the network would give a low output for a left turn to prevent a collision.
  
  Overall, the implemented software are capable of making intelligent and adaptive decisions similar to those needed by drivers. They are able to make informed decisions about the situations they are given and avoid collisions. The trained data in the simulation can be easily ported to a real system application to save effort and time.
  
